HUB
Network hub is a device that connects computer systems in a private network within a local
area network meaning that the connection is without the internet. The hub distributes packet
of data when it receives it by broadcasting the data to all the devices that are connection on the
network. The network bandwidth is divided between all the connected computers.
Switches
This is a device that connects computers, printers and other hardware devices in a network.
The switch works by determining where a packet destination when it receives a data. It allows
devices on a network talk to each other within a network.
Routers
A router is a device that allows free follow of communication in a network. The router
distributes an internet connection to multiple devices in a network and it also allows your
network to communicate with other networks.
OSI MODEL
OSI (open systems Interconnection) is conceptual framework which illustrates the functions of a
network system. The OSI model characterizes computing functions into a universal set of rules
and conditions in order to support the operations between the products and software. The OSI
Model is split into seven different layers: Physical, Data Link, Network, Transports, Session,
Presentation, and Application.
The 7 Layers of the OSI Model
Physical Layer: this is the lowest layer of the OSI Model that is concerned with optical transition
of raw unstructured data bits across the network from the physical layer of the receiving
device.
Data Link Layer: at this layer devices which have connection nodes are used to carry out node
to node data transfer where data is packaged into frames. The data link layer is where errors
from physical layer are corrected.
This data link layer carry out it work in to stages. The first stage is where the MAC (media access
control) provides flow control and multiplexing for device transmissions over a network. While,
the second stage is provides flow and error control over the physical layer and also indentifies
line protocol through the logical link control (LLC). 
Network Layer: the network layer delivers the frames received from the data link layer to its
proposed destination using the assigned addresses on the frame. Network layer identifies the
destination of the frames by using logical addresses such as the IP (internet protocol). The
router plays a very important role at the network layer because it distributes information to its
destination between networks.
Transport Layer: this layer manages the delivery and error checking of data packets. The
transport layer regulates the size, sequencing and ultimately the transfer of data between
computer systems and host.
Session Layer: the session layer controls the communication between different computer
systems. A connection between the systems is established, managed and terminated at session
layer. It is at this layer that authentication and reconnections takes place.
Presentation Layer: the presentation layer translates data for the application layer based on the
syntax or semantics that that the application layer accepts. It also handles the encryption and
decryption required by the application layer.
Application Layer: at the application layer is where the end users and application layer interact
directly with the software application. At application layer, the communication partners,
resource availability and synchronizes communication is indentified.
The application layer interacts with software application to initiate communication
components.

TCP/IP Model
TCP/IP (Transmission Control Protocol / Internet Protocol) determines how a computer should
be connected to the internet and how data should be transmitted between them. TCP/IP
initiates how virtual network are connected together. TCP/IP Stack is specially designed as a
model to provide super reliable and end-to-end byte stream over an unsecured internetwork.
some of its characteristics of TCP/IP are:
1. It supports a flexible TCP/IP architecture or structure.
2. It makes addition of systems in a network easy.
3. The network remains intact until the source and destination devices are working
properly.
4. TCP enables reliability and ensures that data which arrives of sequence should put back
into order 
5. This model grants implementation flow control by ensuring the sender never subdues a
receiver with data.
The TCP/IP has four layers: Application, Transportation, Internet and Network Interface. The
application layer interacts with software application to implement communication
components. This layer is OSI layer model closest to the end-user which means that it allows
users to communicate with other software at this stage. After the application layer comet the
transportation layer in TCP/IP model
The transportation layer builds on the network layer in order data transport from a process
from the source systems to the destination system. It determines the quantity of data sent and
the rate at which the data is which it is sent.
The Internet Protocol layer sends packets from any network, and any computer until it reaches
its destination regardless of the route they take.
The last layer is the Network Interface Layer of TCP/IP model. The main function of this layer is
to define details of how data should be sent using the network. This layer is also called network
access layer.
HTTP
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is an application layer protocol for transmitting hypermedia
document, such as HTML file that allows users to communicate data to the World Wide Web. It
communicates between web browsers and web servers. HTTP works as a request-response
protocols, it gives users a way to communicates with web resources such as HTML files by
transmitting hypertext messages between clients and servers. HTTP clients use Transmission
Control Protocol (TCP) connections to communication with servers.
TCP
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a network that allows two computer systems to
communicate. TCP is a connection-oriented protocol; this mean that the communicating
devices should establish a connection before transmitting data and close the connection after
transmitting the data. It guarantees a reliable delivery of data to its destination router.
UDP
UDP (User Datagram protocol) is a communication protocol used across the internet for
especially time sensitive transmission such as video playback or DNS lookups. It increases the
communication speed by not formally establishing a connection before data is transferred. 
UDP is the datagram oriented protocol. This is because there is no overhead for opening a
connection, managing a connection, and terminating a connection. It is very efficient for
broadcast and multicast type of network transmission. UDP has only basic error checking
mechanism using checksums.
Firewall
Firewall is a network security device which guards incoming and outgoing traffic and decides
whether to allow or stop specific traffic based on a defined set of security rules. It prevents
security attack over a network.
Firewall establish a barrier between secures and controlled internal networks that can be
trusted and un-trusted outsides networks such as the internet.
A firewall can be hardware or software or even both software and hardware.
DNS
Domain Name System is a server that translates URL (Uniform Resource Locator) or web
addresses into their corresponding IP addresses. It’s a system that allows connection to
websites my matching domain names with the unique ID or IP address.
Latency
Latency is the measure of delay for data to its destination over a network. In a network, latency
measures the time it takes for a data to gets to its destination across the network. It calculates
round trip delay that is the time for information to gets to its destination and back to its source.
Latency is measured in milliseconds (ms).
Caching is the process of storing data in a cache. In computing, a cache is a software or
hardware device that stores data temporary for futures use, so that futures request for that
data are served up faster than accessing the original storage of that data.
Wireless Access Point
Wireless access point (WAP) is a hardware device or configured node on a local area network
(LAN) that enables wireless devices and wired networks to connect through a wireless standard
like Wi-Fi or Bluetooth. Wireless access point feature radio transmitters and antennae, which
makes connectivity between devices and the internet or a network easy.
WAP is also known as a hotspot. 
